abstract - 16/20 - 
Love this project idea. I think the character of the rock has a huge impact on the friction, and it will be an interesting challenge to get a grip on that issue.
Steven Rogak, Feb 18 at 7:08pm
Thanks for the further details. Please remember that the device must be effective to hold the climber during a fall. Thus, it must be able to support the resulting dynamic forces, which can be 5-10 times the static force. Consequently, you will need much larger loads than you are anticipating. Next task is to focus on the design of your "crack" apparatus. Because of the wedge geometry, the sideways forces will be very large, so you will need some massive construction. Where possible, I suggest that you load your setup until pullout; the pass-fail arrangement you are suggesting likely will produce a "pass" for a big fraction of your tests, thus giving rather boring results.
Gary Schajer, Feb 19 at 11:27pm
proposal - 16/20 - 
Dear Team 35 members, Thank you for sending your proposal, looks like you will have challenging preparations and measurements. Some procedural questions: * It is good that you have narrowed down your angle range to 10 degrees, I suggest that you design your apparatus to accommodate up to 15 degrees. This will give you some spare range should you need it later. * Yes, as mentioned, it will be useful for you to "play" with the equipment at first to identify system behaviour and work out suitable measurement protocols. * A drawing of a tentative design of your specimen box would have been useful. It will be very challenging to get this component right, so get on it right away. * For the larger flare angles, the pullout force will be relatively modest. Would it be possible to measure pullout force vs flare angle for cases at the low end? Hopefully this will give you a systematic relationship that you extrapolate to higher loads. This way you could have some expectation of the high-load behaviour without having to damage your cam device. * You may find it useful to use a Gantt chart for your time planning. Be sure to start right away, everything takes much longer than you expect. Take care and good luck. GS
Gary Schajer, Mar 8 at 2:32pm
A really interesting project that looks into a real-world problem! However, the proposal lacks a drawing of the testing apparatus and therefore it's hard to interpret the intended setup. It's a great idea to divide the data into regression and validation sets. This way you can have a quality of fit for a given regression function. I suggest you start with the linear regression and progress to higher order polynomials each coupled with a quality of fit. By doing this you can avoid the over-fitting phenomenon.
Hooman Esfandiari, Mar 12 at 5:31pm
report - 42.5/50 - 
Well done! I was pleased to see your care and attention to produce a logical and cohesive report. I liked the way in which you used sandpaper to simulate a rough rock surface (was it really 1500 grit, that seems really smooth?) Be careful about extrapolating data beyond the measured range, the extrapolation to the left in Figure 10 is unreliable, if done to the right it would be certainly unrealistic. An extra angle at each end of the range would have been informative. I liked your observation and discussion of the minor and major slippages. It would be interesting to examine the cam geometry in more detail, I wonder whether the cam force increases with opening distance. This would explain Fig.9. A nice project overall, done with enthusiasm.
Gary Schajer, May 4 at 7:56am